W-16124800 kafka-confluence-configuration-kt (#2631)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: kafka/4.8/modules/ROOT/pages/kafka-connector-configure-confluent-example.adoc

= Integrate Confluent Schema Registry with Kafka Connector - Example 

The following example shows how to configure the Confluent Schema Registry using Kafka Connector. 

Imagine you are developing a Mule 4 app that processes streaming data from various sources. To ensure the data conforms to defined schemas and to manage schema evolution effectively, you integrate Confluent Schema Registry with your Kafka Connector. This setup is crucial for developers who need to enforce data integrity and compatibility across different versions of data producers and consumers.

> The configuration consits of two parts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration consists of two parts:
```

> * Configure the Confluent Schema Registry in the Kakfa Connector connection using the *Additional Properties* field  (either for the *Consumer* or *Producer* operation).
> * Configure the Kafka Avro dependency in the POM file of the Mule app. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configuring the Confluent Schema Registry in the Kakfa Connector connection using the *Additional Properties* field (either for the *Consumer* or *Producer* operation)
* Configuring the Kafka Avro dependency in the POM file of the Mule app
```
A small rewording to align better with the previous introductory sentence.

> == Configure Kafka Connection

Reviewer: Is this the same as the first part mentioned before? If so, I'd update the title to be more similar: 

== Configure the Confluent Schema Registry in the Kakfa Connector connection

> == Configure the Confluent Schema Registry in the Kakfa Connector connection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure the Confluent Schema Registry in the Kakfa Connector Connection
```

Use the *Additional Properties* field to configure the Confluent Schema Registry.

> === Configuration for Consumer Operation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Configure the Consumer Operation
```

> To configure the *Consumer* operation in Anypoint Studio, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the *Consumer* operation in Anypoint Studio:
```

> . Open your Mule project in Anypoint Studio and navigate to the Global Elements tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Open your Mule project in Anypoint Studio and navigate to the *Global Elements* tab.
```

. Click *Create*.
. In the search box, type `kafka`.
. Select *Apache Kafka Consumer configuration*.
. Click *OK*.

> . In the configuration screen under connection, select *Advanced*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the configuration screen under *connection*, select *Advanced*.
```
Assuming "connection" is a UI element.

. Click the plus sign to add a new additional property.
. Set *Key* to `key.deserializer` and  *Value* to `io.confluent.kafka.serializers.KafkaAvroDeserializer`.
. Repeat step 9 to add all the required Confluent Schema Registry properties.

In the *Configuration XML* window, check the complete confluent schema registry configuration under the `<kafka:additional-property>` tags:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<kafka:consumer-config name="Apache_Kafka_Consumer_configuration” >
<kafka:consumer-plaintext-connection groupId="JenkinsTest">
<kafka:bootstrap-servers >
	<kafka:bootstrap-server value="ec2-3-226-204-173.compute-1.amazonaws.com:9092" />
	</kafka:bootstrap-servers>
<kafka:additional-properties >
  <kafka:additional-property key="key.deserializer" value="’io.confluent.kafka.serializers.KafkaAvroDeserializer” />
    <kafka:additional-property key="value.deserializer value="io.confluent.kafka.serializers.KafkaAvroDeserializer" />
       <kafka:additional-property key="schema.registry.url" value="https://example.us-east-2.aws.confluent.cloud" />
      <kafka:additional-property key="basic.auth.credentials.source" value="USER_INFO" />

>       <kafka:additional-property key="basic.auth.user.info" value="HK6N653LCZCATBEZ:3swV2Zw6jLNODpdwAMqCB6f0+7DNUko/VMZc2w1v7C3APdRZn4PlNz7KH/hxqAdh" />

Reviewer 2: This value should be an example tests, like: _**** PUT YOUR CREDENTIALS HERE ****_

       <kafka:additional-property key="auto.register.schemas" value="false" />
     <kafka:additional-property key="value.subject.name.strategy" value="io.confluent.kafka.serializers.subject.TopicNameStrategy" />	
        </kafka:additional-properties>
        <kafka:topic-patterns >
		<kafka:topic-pattern value="InfraTopic" />
	    </kafka:topic-patterns>
        </kafka:consumer-plaintext-connection>
	    </kafka:consumer-config>
----

> === Configuration for Producer Operation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Configure the Producer Operation
```

> For the *Producer* configuration the difference is to delete `key.deserializer` and `value.deserializer` and replace it with `key.serializer` and `value.serializer`. To configure the *Producer* operation in Anypoint Studio, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the *Producer* operation, you replace `key.deserializer` and `value.deserializer` with `key.serializer` and `value.serializer`. To configure the *Producer* operation in Anypoint Studio:
```

. For *Additional properties*, select *Edit inline*.
. Click the plus sign to add a new additional property.
. Set *Key* to `key.serializer` and  *Value* to `io.confluent.kafka.serializers.KafkaAvroSerializer`.
. Repeat step 9 to add all the required Confluent Schema Registry properties.

In the *Configuration XML* window, check the complete Confluent Schema Registry configuration under the `<kafka:additional-property>` tags:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<kafka:producer-config name="Apache_Kafka_Consumer_configuration” >
<kafka:producer-plaintext-connection groupId="JenkinsTest">
<kafka:bootstrap-servers >
		<kafka:bootstrap-server value="ec2-3-226-204-173.compute-1.amazonaws.com:9092" />
	</kafka:bootstrap-servers>
<kafka:additional-properties >
  <kafka:additional-property key="key.serializer" value="’io.confluent.kafka.serializers.KafkaAvroSerializer” />
       <kafka:additional-property key="value.serializer value="io.confluent.kafka.serializers.KafkaAvroSerializer" />
       <kafka:additional-property key="schema.registry.url" value="https://example.us-east-2.aws.confluent.cloud" />
      <kafka:additional-property key="basic.auth.credentials.source" value="USER_INFO" />

>       <kafka:additional-property key="basic.auth.user.info" value="HK6N653LCZCATBEZ:3swV2Zw6jLNODpdwAMqCB6f0+7DNUko/VMZc2w1v7C3APdRZn4PlNz7KH/hxqAdh" />

Reviewer 2: Idem

       <kafka:additional-property key="auto.register.schemas" value="false" />
     <kafka:additional-property key="value.subject.name.strategy" value="io.confluent.kafka.serializers.subject.TopicNameStrategy" />
			
</kafka:additional-properties>
<kafka:topic-patterns >
		<kafka:topic-pattern value="InfraTopic" />
	</kafka:topic-patterns>
</kafka:producer-plaintext-connection>
	</kafka:producer-config>
----

> == Configure POM file in Mule App

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure the Kafka Avro dependency in the POM File
```

> In the POM file of the Mule app, you configure the Kafka Avro dependency that contains the class that you use to serialize and deserialize. You must update the `<dependencies>`, `<plugin>`, and `<repository>` sections of the POM file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the POM file of the Mule app, configure the Kafka Avro dependency that contains the class to use to serialize and deserialize. You must update the `<dependencies>`, `<plugin>`, and `<repository>` sections of the POM file.
```

> === Configure <dependencies> Section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Configure the <dependencies> Section
```

In the `<dependencies>` section, set `kafka-avro-serializer`:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependencies>	
        <dependency>
            <groupId>io.confluent</groupId>
            <artifactId>kafka-avro-serializer</artifactId>
            <version>7.4.0</version>
        </dependency>
</dependencies>	
----

> === Configure <plugin> Section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Configure the <plugin> Section
```

In the `<plugin>` section, set `kafka-avro-serializer` as a `<sharedLibrary>`:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<plugin>
<groupId>org.mule.tools.maven</groupId>
	<artifactId>mule-maven-plugin</artifactId>
	<version>${mule.maven.plugin.version}</version>
	<extensions>true</extensions>
	<configuration>
		<sharedLibraries>
			<sharedLibrary>
				<groupId>io.confluent</groupId>
				<artifactId>kafka-avro-serializer</artifactId>
			</sharedLibrary>
		</sharedLibraries>
	<classifier>mule-application</classifier>
	</configuration>
</plugin>
----

> Then, set the `avro-maven-plugin` plugin. This dependency from the org.apache.avro group is a plugin for Apache Maven that facilitates the handling of Avro schema files in Java projects. The plugin automatically generates Java classes from Avro schemas (.avsc), protocols (.avpr), and IDL files (.avdl). This simplifies development by eliminating the need to manually write Java classes that represent Avro schemas, ensuring that the Java code is always synchronized with the Avro schemas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, set the `avro-maven-plugin` plugin. This dependency from the `org.apache.avro` group is a plugin for Apache Maven that facilitates handling Avro schema files in Java projects. The plugin automatically generates Java classes from Avro schemas (.avsc), protocols (.avpr), and IDL files (.avdl). This process simplifies development by eliminating the need to manually write Java classes that represent Avro schemas, ensuring that the Java code is always synchronized with the Avro schemas.
```

The `<sourceDirectory>` specifices the folder where the Avro schemas live, for example `<sourceDirectory>${project.basedir}/PATH_TO_SCHEMAS</sourceDirectory>`.

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<plugin>
<groupId>org.apache.avro</groupId>
	<artifactId>avro-maven-plugin</artifactId>
	<version>1.10.2</version>
	<executions>
		<execution>
			<phase>generate-sources</phase>
			<goals>
				<goal>schema</goal>
			</goals>
			<configuration>							
            <sourceDirectory>${project.basedir}/PATH_TO_SCHEMAS</sourceDirectory>
			</configuration>
		</execution>
	</executions>
</plugin>
----

> == Configure <repository> Section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure the <repository> Section
```
